# Generic models

**crappy translation!**

## Important information

Generic models have some limitations due to the system and should be used with care!

1. Since generic models are embedded in an entry you can not define links to other entries! These must be described as before in the database models. Likewise hooks can not be directly applied to generic fields.
2. The fields in the generic models are not shown in the relational database and therefore can not be directly used as filter criteria in an SQL statement! Content can be found via LIKE query instead or should be duplicated int a "shadow table" (see below).
3. Fields in the generic models are not tested for their integrity by the database, since the whole model is stored as a large text. Depending on the operation Generic models are slower than database models.

## Administration

With the editor for generic models can be -as in the editor for the database models- also models and fields create, arrange and edit.
Updates to the model are the entries based on the model transfer.

Edit Fields

If a model is selected, the fields are displayed as sortable list in the main area. About the pencil icon, the properties of the field to edit:
Languages

For output in the backend can be created for each language corresponding translations of the field name. Each translation starts with the country code followed by a colon and is written in a separate line.

Example of simple voice Labels:

    de:mein toller Bereich
    en:my great Section

After selecting a language labels can be the form fields in addition to accumulate and structure
Tabs and Akkordions

{Snips @ import / .tabs_accordions.md}
Tooltip and Placeholder

Should the field be given additional information such as tooltips, help texts in the popup window and how to enter, the label with a tooltip can 2 and link are provided to help text and the input field with a placeholder [^ Placeholder].

    Tooltip: tooltip text in parentheses de: Field label (Tooltip text with HTML)
    Help text: path (starting from the end) to the help file in angle brackets de: Field label <pfad/auf/die/datei.md#optionaler_anker>
    Placeholder: Placeholder text in square brackets de: Field label [Placeholder text WITHOUT HTML] 

Data type

The data type may also specify which input box is drawn in the backend. Depending on the type, additional parameters in the following field "wizard" can be stored. If a wizard input field selected here may also specify a wizard. The call is automatically written to the underlying field "addition".
Default Value

Here, a predetermined value for a new entry to be specified.
Addition

Here you can additional parameters for a field deposit.

    Parameters for "data-" attributes with normal input fields (strings, numeric fields and text fields). Here, any information can be passed. Currently, the following attributes are considered in Javascript.
        mask: This attribute adds the field an input mask for a given input schema to. Read more here
        Sample input in addition field:
        mask: (999) 999-9999
        type: This attribute missed a different type (hopefully in IE ..) the field. HTML5 browser support (future) corresponding auxiliary functions. values
        Sample input in addition field:
        type: email 
    Parameters for invoking a wizard: This usually happens on the selection of Wizards of the drop and can be adapted here. (The large capitalized terms are placeholders below.)
        wizard: WIZARD_NAME
        param: ZUSÄTZLICHE_PARAMETER
        icon: icon_name
        label: LABEL_NAME 

By day

The specification of tags used to describe the field (this can be used eg to data structures automatically transferred to other systems).
Comment

A field for internal descriptions. This is helpful for others to understand what you wanted with the structure.
Operate on the code level

Note: only for experts!

Click on the button: "View Code", the JSON data structure be viewed, copied and edited directly.

    the button "load JSON" accepts the edited / pasted JSON as a model
    the button "save JSON (no DB update)" only saves the model without the entries based on it to update. This is useful for "open heart surgery" and can lead to inconsistencies in following updates because entries are adjusted due to the last difference!
    on the button "Replace DB model string" the model can be in the database entries by string replacement correct. 

In the JSON files in the project directory under "objects / generic /" are then the models described above.
Implementations

A field of type Generic model requires a stored JSON structure. In principle, there is of course to load a JSON in the database field, different conditions and possibilities.

    How: Usually in such a hook is to be used, it could of course also external programs or database routines for initialization / update care.
    When: Events such as the Vernküpfen with another area, the application by a (n) User (in) with specific roles and other conditions of the trigger for the establishment of an appropriately fitted model can be. 

In the following, the manual handling of generic models is described below:

In order not to enter every time the JSON model by hand and at the same time must be able to offer a fixed set of generic models can fill the model via a selection box with an external content. For this, there is already a corresponding hook named "load generic model"

We need this 3 fields

    Selection field for paths leading to external sites (type SELVARCHAR) with the seed word "select"
    Flag field indicating (if and) what is currently loaded (VARCHAR), the
    Generic model field (Type MODEL) 

also we need the Hook "prefill 'and can be as a field from an external file is to be filled.

Example:

    PRE:loadGenericModel:feldnameselect,feldname,feldnameflag

Development

(Previously only keywords!)

    [NAME] (Type MODEL)
    [NAME] select (type SELVARCHAR)
    [NAME] flag (VARCHAR) 

Shadow object

[OBJECT NAME] shadow

Fields

    [OBJECT NAME] id (1: n-relation)
    name (String)
    value (text or blob) 

    this operation is computationally expensive and accordingly should not be in too many entries that are based on the model, made ​​wherever possible. ↩

    A tooltip is a little info bubble that appears when the mouse moves over the label. the label itself is displayed in italics. [^ Placeholder]: A placeholder is an information text that appears in the empty box. ↩ 